The Joe Rogan experience.
Gordon is
undeniably the best pound for pound jujitsu player on earth,
not just the best, but pretty pretty.
It's a pretty good statement to say that you're the best ever.
And you're only 25. Yeah, that's crazy.
How the does that happen? Uh.
So, uh, I'm gonna go ahead and give, give credit to John. I mean, uh,
I think that without him, I maybe would've been successful. I would've been, uh,
I would've been, you know,
maybe the best in the world at some point in my career,
but I don't think that without John, uh, I would be where I am right now.
And I don't think that I would've in this good, uh, in, in this amount of time,
you know, I've only, I've been train 10 years. I've been competing com uh,
professionally for five years. And, uh, I think that, you know,
a big part of the reason why I am, where I am is cuz cuz of John's.
Coaching. Yeah. And we're,
we're talking about John Donaher for people who don't know who is a,
a literal genius and a mastermind in jujitsu and a true mad
scientist and watching him coach you guys is very fascinating because he's so
serious and stoic and Gordon, Ryan pass over the left leg, Gordon,
Ryan post, like the way he talks. Like it's really interesting.
He says your full name too. It's it's real. It's.
Very interesting. Gordon Ryan, Gary to and Craig Jones. Yeah. It's always,
it's always the full, the full name.
Yeah. Why, what is he's that's an odd duck. He.
Does it to address us. Um,
because a lot of times like you've got like Nikki for example,
like there's a lot of guys named Nick, so he makes sure he makes sure that,
you know, he is talking to you when he says Nikki Ryan, Nick, rod, Craig Jones,
Gordon, Ryan. So you know that,
you know that when you hear your name being called your first and last name,
you know that, okay, this person is addressing you in a room of, you know, five,
10,000 people.
He's such an unusual human being.
There is not a single person on the planet earth like John Donna,
her one of the most brilliant guys I've ever met obsessed with jujitsu.
Mostly like that's, if you, you got a pie chart of his brain, it would be like,
he's like 20% room for other. 80% of his brain is jujitsu. Yeah.
I mean, it's a not, it's not even just jujitsu,
it's just martial arts in general. Mm. Like, I mean,
people who know John on a personal level and have trained with John know that
John knows just much just as much about MMA he does or even more about MMA than
he does about jujitsu. Um,
he's been coaching MMA with George and with Chris Wideman for longer than he's
been coaching jujitsu. I mean,
he's only been coaching professional jujitsu athletes for five years. Uh,
and I've watched him personally teach judo privates to judo,
Olympians watch, uh, teach him, have him.
I watched him teach wrestling privates to wrestling world team members,
wrestling, Olympians. Um, you know, he knows a,
just as much about the other martial arts as he does about jujitsu. It's crazy.
Yeah. And never walks around without a rash guard on which is, that's also.
Correct. <laugh>.
Which is the honest thing.
I I've seen him one time ever with a RA with a, with a t-shirt on, because uh,
we went to long island to train with Chris, uh, Chris WMAN one time and uh,
he forgot his change of rash guards.
So he had his street rash guard on and he didn't have a second rash guard to
change into. And Chris didn't have a rash guard for him.
So they gave him like this pink Flamingo t-shirt that he ended up,
we did a whole session with Chris Weiman it was right before he was gonna fight
Luke Rockhold the second time, which ended up never happening. But, uh,
we did this whole session with John with like this pink TRO gold t-shirt on.
And then he changed out the t-shirt to get back into a street rash guard and
leave to go home. Like it was just like, I'm just like, okay, this is happening.
I posted it. Everyone was freaking out about it.
Is how crazy is it that he has a street rash guard? Yeah.
He's got his, he's got street rash guards. He's got, uh, training, rash guards.
And he's got like his nighttime, like dinner date rash was like,
he's got like a, like a date rash guard. He's got a dinner rash.
Like he's got it all. He's got it all sorted out.
So if he goes out on a date with a woman, he wears a rash guard. Oh.
Yeah. He's got like, he's got like this really nice, like under arm,
like this gray under arm or sweatshirt that he, or, um,
rash guard that he puts on. And like, you know,
like when John comes out in one of his fancy rash guards, you're like, okay,
he's not around now. <laugh> like, this guy is like, he got, you're like,
all right, this guy means business tonight. <laugh> but you.
Has anybody ever asked him what the is.
Going on? Yeah, I mean, so he just,
he just likes to wear rash guards because of the fact that they dry fast. Um,
the fact that they're cool, they keep you cool. They keep you warm.
They get wet. They dry fast. Um, and they're just tight fitting.
He likes tight fitting clothes. Um, so he just, he just prefers to wear them.
He thinks they're more efficient than t-shirts are.
It's just so odd. But that's part of John Doner always has a Fanny pack respect.
I respect to Fanny pack. Yeah. I mean.
One of the great mysteries of the world is what he has inside that Fanny pack.
It's kind of thick. It is. He's a large Fanny.
He's got a lot of stuff inside there.
He's uh, it's just,
it's so fascinating to watch what he's done in coaching this Don,
her Des squad and create like he's unquestionably the greatest Jisu coach on
earth. And this is also widely regarded,
like the way you are widely regarded as the best pound for pound grappler.
He's widely regard the best jujitsu coach and it's it's um,
it's really interesting to see that you guys just have been
dominating the grappling scene and to watch all this play out and to see
people study you guys, but still not be able to catch up.
Yeah. I mean,
what most people do is they just see like a general outline of what we do,
but no one, no one looks at what the specifics of what we're doing. They say,
oh, you know, Gordon's a good Lu locker.
Let me try to do Lu locks or Gordon's trapping hands from the back.
Let me try to do that. But they don't see the very specific details.
And the specific details are,
what's gonna be the difference between finishing a high level guy and having a
high level guy escapee. Um,
so whatever does is they just see the general idea and have the general of what
we're doing. And they try to just copy that. Uh,
but when you just try to copy the best guys,
if you just try to copy everyone else,
you get the same results as everybody else,
you have to go further than what the best guys are doing and you have to
innovate. And you know, I get,
I look at the other best guys in the world and I say, what are they doing?
You know, that works against the other high level guys.
And how can I make that better?
Not just let me try to arbitrarily copy what they're trying to do.
Now. What is missing in, like,
if you take the rest of the people that are in the top 10, like,
what are they doing differently?
What everyone does in jujitsu is they try to do the least amount of work
possible to win a Juto match, right?
So they try to jump past your guard. They score in advantage,
they score a couple points. And then for the next seven minutes they do nothing.
Whereas what we try to do is we try to take the hardest route to a victory and
we try to submit the guy. So what do you see as a complete,
there's just a complete different minds, a,
a completely different mindset between what the rest of the guys are doing and
what we're trying to do. We're trying to go out and we're not,
we're not satisfied unless we hit a submission. And in my case,
sometimes they call the submission and I'm trying to, you know,
go out and hit a specific submission. Um, but you know,
they're happy just going out and having a match with this 10 minutes in the
feet,
they just hang on each other's collar ties and then they win a rest and they run
around beating their chest. Like they just, they, they, they did something. Um,
so just the mindset and the mindset for winning in competition is completely
different.
Catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog Jr E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly,
which between video and audio experience on Spotify,
you can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the, a Jerry on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.